Poké Ball - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon encyclopedia 

# Poké Ball

 

This article is about the type of item. For the item called Poké Ball, see Poké Ball (item).

---

The 28 Poké Ball variants found in the core series(excluding those exclusive to Pokémon Legends: Arceus) Original concept

A Poké Ball (Japanese: モンスターボール Monster Ball) is a type of item that is critical to a Trainer's quest, used for catching and storing Pokémon. Both a general term used to describe the various kinds as well as a specific term to refer to the most basic among these variations, Poké Balls are ubiquitous in the modern Pokémon world.

Up to six Pokémon can be carried with a Trainer in Poké Balls, while more Poké Balls can be held in the Bag for later use. These six Pokémon in the Poké Balls can be attached to the user's belt for carrying them around. Some Pokémon do not like to be carried around in Poké Balls, such as Ash's Pikachu.

Stylized Poké Balls are used in many places to symbolize Pokémon in general: the logos of the Battle Frontiers, the Pokémon Contests, the Pokéathlon, and the Pokémon Musical all feature a Poké Ball in their design, while several Poké Balls can be seen in every Pokémon Center. The headgear of the protagonists of Kanto, Hoenn, Sinnoh, and Unova-based games feature Poké Ball designs, as do the Bags of the protagonists of Johto-based games. Ethan's headgear is also similar to the top half of an Ultra Ball, and Lucas's Bag prominently features a Poké Ball.

## In the core series games

The strength of a Poké Ball is determined by how much it raises a wild Pokémon's catch rate, and may in fact vary depending on the conditions of the battle. Poké Balls limit the power of Pokémon contained inside, taming them, though they do not cause the Pokémon inside to always obey the Trainer.

### History

Main article: History of Poké Balls A Poké Ball used by those who explored the Hisui region

The invention of Poké Balls occurred in the Johto region, where Apricorns grow; these fruits were cut apart and carved out, then fitted with a special device, and used to catch wild Pokémon. Some Trainers still use Poké Balls made from Apricorns, while Kurt, a resident of Azalea Town, still constructs them. Pokémon Legends: Arceus shows that the first settlers of the Sinnoh region, back when it was known as the Hisui region, used pre-modern Poké Balls made of Tumblestone and Apricorns, with Professor Laventon claiming they were a more recent invention. According to Professor Elm, before the invention of the Poké Ball, people would walk with their Pokémon.

In the games, in the Memory Link event A New Light, Drayden claims that Poké Balls did not exist during his childhood.

Modern Poké Balls are not normally made from Apricorns, with the exception of specialist Poké Balls such as the Moon Ball. Modern Poké Balls are manufactured by Silph Co., the Devon Corporation, and the Kalos Poké Ball Factory.

### Mechanics and design

Though the technology behind a Poké Ball remains unknown and has evolved through the centuries to accommodate the diverse requirements of their creators, the basic mechanics are simple enough to understand and tend to remain constant: in a Pokémon battle, once an opposing wild Pokémon has been weakened, the Pokémon Trainer can throw a Poké Ball at it. When a Poké Ball hits the Pokémon, as long as it is not deflected, the Poké Ball will open, cause the Pokémon to shrink, store it inside, and close. A Pokémon in this state is given a chance to struggle to attempt to break free from the ball and escape, instantly growing back in size if successful. Should a Pokémon escape a Poké Ball, the device is destroyed in the games, unlike in the animated series. A Pokémon that does not escape the Ball will be caught. Pokémon Legends: Arceus elaborates a bit on how the Pokémon are contained in a Poké Ball, with Professor Laventon explaining that Pokémon have the ability to reduce their size to miniscule, and Poké Balls take advantage of this to contain them.

Poké Balls are specifically constructed for Pokémon capture, transport, and training. As well as being physically difficult to escape from, due to sealing tightly shut as soon as a Pokémon enters one, the environment of a Poké Ball is designed to be attractive to Pokémon also; according to Lucian of the Sinnoh Elite Four, weakened Pokémon instinctively curl up tight in an attempt to heal themselves, an action that the environment of the Poké Ball encourages. Although it is not known how a caught Pokémon perceives its time inside of its Ball, the device is said to create an environment that is "incredibly comfortable for Pokémon."[1] Junichi Masuda compared the interior of a Poké Ball to "a high-end suite room in a fancy hotel.”[2] All of these factors strongly discourage Pokémon from escaping their Balls. In the manga, Bugsy refers to his "capture net" as being the net that is supposedly inside a Poké Ball, but visible and already deployed. According to Kurt, this invisible net captures and physically stores a Pokémon.

However, in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, the protagonist's Koraidon S/ Miraidon V repeatedly shows that it can enter and leave its Poké Ball as it wishes.

When a Trainer Dynamaxes or Gigantamaxes a Pokémon, the Poké Ball expands to the size of an association football.

In some games, a Ball Capsule can be used in combination with Stickers to create special effects when the Pokémon is sent out.

### Poké Ball accuracy

See also: Catch rate

In some scenarios, a Poké Ball can miss the wild Pokémon completely (in contrast to breaking if the Poké Ball does not successfully capture the Pokémon):

In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, Pokémon Legends: Arceus outside of battle, and Pokémon Legends: Z-A, Poké Balls are thrown manually, and the player must aim properly to hit the Pokémon. In Legends: Arceus, Heavy Ball and Feather Ball items have noticeably different throwing distances and trajectories compared to the standard variations.

- In Legends: Z-A, the player's Poké Balls that were thrown and missed can be retrieved by a lost Poké Ball collector, located outside each Pokémon Center.

In other scenarios, it is simply not possible to use Poké Balls in the first place:

In non- Legends core series games, in wild battles the player cannot throw a Poké Ball if there are multiple opponents—such as in wild Double Battles, Horde Encounters, or SOS Battles—with the game claiming that it's impossible to aim.

- This is not the case in Pokémon Legends: Arceus and Pokémon Legends: Z-A.

### Pokémon's Poké Ball

Starting in Generation III, each owned Pokémon's data stores the index number of the type of Poké Ball used to catch it or received in. An owned Pokémon's Poké Ball cannot be legitimately changed and is displayed in the Pokémon's summary screen.

There are special cases in how Poké Ball are assigned when obtaining Pokémon:

Bred Pokémon:

- Prior to Generation VI, all hatched Pokémon are in a standard Poké Ball.
- In Generation VI, a bred Pokémon will be in the same Poké Ball as its mother. Pokémon bred from a male or gender-unknown Pokémon and Ditto will hatch in a standard Poké Ball.
- Since Generation VII, in addition to inheriting its mother's Poké Ball, a bred Pokémon can now inherit the non-Ditto parent's Poké Ball if bred with Ditto. If two Pokémon of the same species in different balls (regardless of their form) are bred, the resulting offspring will have an equal chance to inherit either parent's Poké Ball.
- In all generations, Master Ball, Cherish Ball, and Strange Ball cannot be inherited. If an offspring would inherit one of these balls, they will be in a standard Poké Ball instead.

Pokémon transferred from another game:

- Despite transferring Pokémon from Gen III to IV games in Pal Park involves catching them with Park Balls, they retain their original Poké Ball and index number from Gen III games instead of being reassigned to Park Balls.
- Pokémon from Pokéwalker to HeartGold or SoulSilver are contained in standard Poké Balls.
- Pokémon from Pokémon Dream Radar to Black 2 or White 2 are contained in Dream Balls.
- Pokémon transferred from Virtual Console versions of Gen I and II games to Pokémon Bank via Poké Transporter are in standard Poké Balls, because Gen I and II games do not keep track of Pokémon's Poké Ball.

Shedinja if obtained from evolving Nincada:

- In Gen III, Shedinja copies its parent Nincada's ball.
- Since Gen IV, obtaining Shedinja additionally requires owning a standard Poké Ball in inventory, which is consumed upon evolution. The resulting Shedinja will then be in the standard Poké Ball.
- In Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum only, evolving Shedinja in any Apricorn Balls or the Sport Ball(which, in Gen IV, are only coded to exist in HeartGold and SoulSilver) will copy the ball to Shedinja without reassigning it to have a standard Poké Ball. In HeartGold and SoulSilver, as Nincada is only found in the Bug Catching Contest which only permits Sport Balls, only Sport Balls can be legitimately copied to Shedinja in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum this way.

If a Pokémon is traded to a game that does not support its Poké Ball:

- In Pokémon Sword and Shield, catching Calyrex in its Ice Rider or Shadow Rider forms will assign the ball used to both Calyrex and its steed (Glastrier or Spectrier, respectively).
- Pokémon from HeartGold and SoulSilver caught in Apricorn Balls or a Sport Ball will be displayed in a standard Poké Ball in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. The original Poké Ball data is preserved and will be correctly displayed again when traded back to HeartGold or SoulSilver.
- Pokémon originating from Legends: Arceus transferred to Pokémon Sword and Shield will have their ball converted into a standard Poké Ball, with their original ball data being stored in Pokémon HOME's server.
- Pokémon originating from Pokémon Legends: Arceus which are then transferred into another game (vice versa for those caught outside Legends: Arceus and then transferred in) will be displayed in Strange Balls while in a game where the Pokémon's ball is not programmed into the game, but will still retain its original index number.

### Other gameplay mechanics

- From Generation III onward, each variety of Poké Ball has a unique animation when it catches or sends out a Pokémon, except in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! and Pokémon Legends: Arceus.
- Fling will fail if the user is holding any type of Poké Ball.

### Types of Poké Balls

In the Pokémon games so far, there have been 34 (38 if the Hisuian Poké Ball, Great Ball, Ultra Ball, and Heavy Ball are considered distinct from their modern-day counterparts) different varieties of Poké Balls, all differing from each other in some way, whether it be an increased ability to catch a Pokémon from the wild or an effect which occurs only after the Pokémon has been caught.

Every Poké Ball (except the Beast Ball and Master Ball) has a 0.1× catch rate modifier when attempting to catch an Ultra Beast.

| Name | Gen. | # | Hex | Catch rate modifier | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Master Ball | I | 1 | 0x01 | N/A (guaranteed capture) | The only Poké Ball other than the Beast Ball that does not have a 0.1× catch modifier when used on an Ultra Beast. |
| Ultra Ball | I | 2 | 0x02 | 2× |
| Great Ball | I | 3 | 0x03 | 1.5× |
| Poké Ball | I | 4 | 0x04 | 1× | Must be in the player's Bag with an empty space in the party to obtain a Shedinja when Nincada evolves from Generation IV onwards. |
| Safari Ball | I | 5 | 0x05 | 1× | Prior to Generation VIII, it was only usable within Safari Zones. |
| Net Ball | III | 6 | 0x06 | 3.5× if used on a Water or Bug-type Pokémon1× otherwise |
| Dive Ball | III | 7 | 0x07 | 3.5× if used while surfing, fishing, or underwater 1× otherwise | In Generation III, it only had an increased catch rate underwater. |
| Nest Ball | III | 8 | 0x08 | ((41 - Pokémon's level) ÷ 10)× if Pokémon's level is between 1 and 291× otherwise |
| Repeat Ball | III | 9 | 0x09 | 3.5× if used on a Pokémon that is registered in the player's Pokédex as caught1× otherwise |
| Timer Ball | III | 10 | 0x0A | (1 + number of turns passed in battle * 1229/4096)×, maximum 4× at 10 turns | Greater than an Ultra Ball at 4 turns.In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the total number of moves used since the beginning of the battle by both the wild Pokémon and the player's active Pokémon is used as the turn counter instead. |
| Luxury Ball | III | 11 | 0x0B | 1× | Doubles the rate at which the contained Pokémon's friendship increases. |
| Premier Ball | III | 12 | 0x0C | 1× |
| Dusk Ball | IV | 13 | 0x0D | 3× if used in a cave or at night1× otherwise |
| Heal Ball | IV | 14 | 0x0E | 1× | Fully restores a caught Pokémon's HP and PP and removes their status conditions. |
| Quick Ball | IV | 15 | 0x0F | 5× if used on the first turn of a battle1× otherwise | In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, the increased catch rate is instead applied if neither the wild Pokémon nor the player's active Pokémon have used any moves since the beginning of the battle. |
| Cherish Ball | IV | 16 | 0x10 | 1× | Unobtainable by the player, but used for various event Pokémon. |
| Fast Ball | II | 17 | 0x11 | 4× if used on a Pokémon with a base Speed of at least 100 1× otherwise | In Generation II, it was intended to have a 4× catch modifier for Pokémon that can flee, but it only does for three of them: Magnemite, Grimer and Tangela. |
| Level Ball | II | 18 | 0x12 | 1× if the player's Pokémon is the same level as or a lower level than the wild Pokémon2× if the player's Pokémon is at a higher level than the wild Pokémon but less than double it4× if the player's Pokémon is more than double but less than four times the level of the wild Pokémon8× if the player's Pokémon is of a level four times or more than that of the wild Pokémon | In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if the player does not have a Pokémon out, the Level Ball will always have a catch rate modifier of 1×. |
| Lure Ball | II | 19 | 0x13 | 4× if used on a Pokémon encountered while fishing 1× otherwise | In Johto, the bonus was 3x while in Alola, the bonus was 5xIn Generation IX, it instead had an increased catch rate if used on Pokémon that are currently on or in water. |
| Heavy Ball | II | 20 | 0x14 | -20 if used on a Pokémon weighing 220.2 lbs. (99.9 kg) or less±0 if used on a Pokémon weighing 220.5 lbs. (100.0 kg)– 440.7 lbs. (199.9 kg)+20 if used on a Pokémon weighing 440.9 lbs. (200.0 kg)– 661.2 lbs. (299.9 kg)+30 if used on a Pokémon weighing 661.4 lbs. (300.0 kg) or more | In Pokémon Crystal only, there is a glitch that causes the retrieved weights of Pokémon whose index numbers are divisible by 64 (Kadabra, Tauros, and Sunflora) to become junk data that are, in turn, interpreted as massive weights, causing these particular Pokémon to receive the +40 capture modifier.In Pokémon Sun and Moon only, a Heavy Ball will always fail to catch a Pokémon whose weight is less than 220.46 lbs (100.0 kg) and whose catch rate is less than or equal to 20. This is because the game will set the catch rate to 0 when the catch rate becomes negative due to the -20 modifier that is applied. |
| Love Ball | II | 21 | 0x15 | 8× if used on a Pokémon of the same species but opposite gender of the player's Pokémon1× otherwise | In Generation II, it has an 8× catch modifier if both Pokémon are the same species and gender.In Pokémon Legends: Z-A, if the player does not have a Pokémon out, the Love Ball will always have a catch rate modifier of 1×. |
| Friend Ball | II | 22 | 0x16 | 1× | Sets caught Pokémon's friendship to 200 Gen II- VII, or 150 Gen VIII+ |
| Moon Ball | II | 23 | 0x17 | 4× if used on a Pokémon that evolves by using a Moon Stone 1× otherwise | In Generation II, it always has a 1× catch modifier due to a programming error. |
| Sport Ball* | II | 24 | 0x18 | 1× | Prior to Generation VIII, it was only usable during the Bug-Catching Contest. |
| Dream Ball | V | 25 | 0x19 | 4× if used on a sleeping or drowsy Pokémon1× otherwise | Used only in Entree Forest prior to Generation VIII.Guaranteed capture in Generation V. |
| Beast Ball | VII | 26 | 0x1A | 5× if used on an Ultra Beast 0.1× otherwise | If any other Poké Ball (except the Master Ball) is used on an Ultra Beast, it has a 0.1× catch modifier. |
| Park Ball | IV | 27 | 0x1B | N/A (guaranteed capture if used in Pal Park)1× otherwise | Unobtainable by the player, but used in Pal Park. |
| Strange Ball | VIII | 27 | 0x1B | 0.75× | Unobtainable by the player. Pokémon in Pokémon Legends: Arceus that were transferred from other games via Pokémon HOME, as well as Pokémon from Legends: Arceus in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl or Pokémon Scarlet and Violet will be displayed in this ball. |
| Poké Ball | VIII | 28 | 0x1C | 0.75× |
| Great Ball | VIII | 29 | 0x1D | 1.5× |
| Ultra Ball | VIII | 30 | 0x1E | 2.25× |
| Feather Ball | VIII | 31 | 0x1F | 1×1.25× when boosted | Can be thrown further than a regular Poké Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air. |
| Wing Ball | VIII | 32 | 0x20 | 1.5×1.75× when boosted | Can be thrown further than a Feather Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air. |
| Jet Ball | VIII | 33 | 0x21 | 2×2.75× when boosted | Can be thrown further than a Wing Ball. Is more effective for catching Pokémon that fly high in the air. |
| Heavy Ball | VIII | 34 | 0x22 | 1×1.25× when boosted | Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player. |
| Leaden Ball | VIII | 35 | 0x23 | 1.75×2× when boosted | Upgraded version of the Heavy Ball. Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player. |
| Gigaton Ball | VIII | 36 | 0x24 | 2.5×2.75× when boosted | Upgraded version of the Leaden Ball. Doesn't fly far, but is more effective if the Pokémon hasn't noticed the player. |
| Origin Ball | VIII | 37 | 0x25 | N/A | Automatically catches Origin Forme Dialga or Palkia at the end of the main story in Pokémon Legends: Arceus. |
| All details are accurate to Generation VIII games. For details that have changed between generations, please see an individual item's page. |

### Other variants

| This section is missing one or more images.Please feel free to add any missing images to this section. Needed images can be uploaded to the Bulbagarden Archives. Reason: Add image of the blue Poké Ball from the Poké Transfer |
| --- |

In Pokémon Sword and Shield, the Dynamax Band allows Trainers to increase the size of Poké Balls, making them look like giant Premier Balls.

- When a Pokémon is Dynamaxed(including Gigantamaxing) with a Dynamax Band, the Trainer returns their active Pokémon to its Poké Ball, then turns the Poké Ball into a giant Poké Ball. This giant Poké Ball is then thrown, sending out the Dynamax Pokémon.
- In Max Raid Battles and Dynamax Adventures, when the wild Dynamax Pokémon is defeated, the Trainer turns an empty Poké Ball into a giant Poké Ball, then throws it at the wild Dynamax Pokémon in an attempt to catch it.

"Ah! This is the custom POKé BALL I ordered! Thank you!"

The GS Ball

The Ride Pager Poké Ball

Concept art of a giant Poké Ball for Dynamax by Ken Sugimori [3]

### Palette limitations

In the games, certain Poké Balls appear off-color due to palette limitations. They are most likely intended to be standard Poké Balls rather than variations.

In Generation I, during a Pokémon battle, the multiple kinds of Poké Ball have different throwing animations but otherwise look the same. They all appear with a black top and white bottom. This black and white design is clearly seen when the Poké Ball is shaking in an attempt to catch the wild Pokémon.

- In Generation II, all kinds of Poké Ball look the same when used in-battle except they have different color palettes. Unlike in the previous generation, all Poké Balls use the same throwing animation, save for the Master Ball.
- In both Generations I and II, the Poké Ball changes color once the wild Pokémon is successfully caught, shortly appearing with the color palette of the caught Pokémon. For instance, no matter what kind of Poké Ball, it appears to be green once a green Pokémon is caught, or pink once a pink Pokémon is caught.

In Generation I, the trade animation invariably displays both Pokémon using the Poké Ball design with the black top and white bottom, the same design seen in Pokémon battles.

- In Generation II, the trade animation uses a red color palette for both traded Pokémon, specifically a darker red at the top and a lighter red at the bottom.

A black Poké Ball at the start of a trade in Red and Blue

Red with a purple Poké Ball in the intro of Red and Blue

Blue with a black Poké Ball as Champion in Red and Blue

Professor Oak with an olive Poké Ball in Generation II

Morty with a purple Poké Ball in Generation II

Erika with a green Poké Ball in Generation II

A Youngster with a blue Poké Ball in Generation II

A Super Nerd with gray Poké Balls in Generation II

A Boarder with a yellow Poké Ball in Generation II

Twins with pink Poké Balls in Generation II

Glacia with a yellow Poké Ball in Generation III

A Psychic with purple Poké Balls in FireRed and LeafGreen

- In the Generations from I to III, several Trainer sprites have off-color Poké Balls. They often reuse the same colors seen elsewhere in the sprites such as the character's hair or clothes.

### Item balls

Main article: Item → Obtaining items Red finding an item ball on Route 2

Items contained in Poké Balls have been present from the very first games, with many items that are found on the field being found in Poké Balls in conspicuous locations. These items are sometimes important, and usually will be among the required items for pickup along the way. Sometimes, even Poké Ball variants can be found in item balls, though it may be that the item ball itself is supposed to represent the item that is found (whenever or not it's a Poké Ball). Many other items, however, are hidden, and are not in item balls, instead being directly on the field, and can be found more easily using an Itemfinder or Dowsing Machine.

Voltorb, Electrode, Foongus, Amoonguss, and Galarian Stunfisk appear as item balls in the overworld, but attack when interacted with (or if at close range for Galarian Stunfisk), except the Foongus in Accumula Town. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, fake item balls appear upside down.

### Game icons

Poké Balls are often featured in the icons for Pokémon games, which are used on the home screens for the Nintendo DS, 3DS, Switch, and mobile devices.

| D P | Pt | HG SS | B W | B2 W2 | X Y | OR AS | OR AS(Demo) | S M | S M(Demo) | US UM | P E | Transporter | Bank | HOME(Switch) | HOME(Mobile) | GO |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

## In the side series games

Wes about to throw a Great Ball turned into a Snag Ball

### Pokémon Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness

In Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness, a Snag Ball is not a single, separate type of Poké Ball, but rather any type of existing Poké Ball that has been "unlocked" by the Snag Machine, allowing it to snag an already- caught Pokémon during a battle. While it is able to be used on any Pokémon, Rui will only allow Wes to use it on Shadow Pokémon, while Michael's Aura Reader will render the Snag Machine inoperable when a Pokémon other than a Shadow Pokémon is targeted.

It is possible to snag a Shadow Pokémon even if there are two on the opposing side of the field, unlike catching Pokémon in the core series games.

## In the spin-off games

### Pokémon GO

Players do not battle wild Pokémon in Pokémon GO, and using Poké Balls is a matter of the player's aim. To throw one, the player must press their finger on the Poké Ball, move it, and release it. The Ball and Pokémon exist in a 3D environment, so the player may miss the Pokémon by throwing the Ball the wrong distance or too far to the side. Additionally, the wild Pokémon may attempt to dodge or attack every few seconds. When a Pokémon is attacking, any Poké Balls that hit it will be deflected. When a Pokémon dodges, it will move around but can still be hit by a thrown Ball.

See more: Caught Pokémon → Pokémon GO

On the aiming screen, a colored circle displays over the Pokémon, gradually shrinks to nothing, then resets to its widest before continuing to shrink again. If the player's throw lands inside this circle, they will get a "Nice!", "Great!", or "Excellent!" catch chance bonus depending on how small the circle was. The player can also improve their catch chance by throwing a curveball. If the player spins the Ball while holding it, it will temporarily retain the spin and curve left or right when thrown.

See more: Catch rate (GO)

Three types of Poké Balls were available in Pokémon GO upon release: regular Poké Balls, Great Balls, and Ultra Balls. These remain the only types of Poké Balls that are generally available. They can be repeatably obtained by:

- Spinning PokéStops or Gyms(Lv. 12+ for Great Balls and Lv. 20+ for Ultra Balls)
- Opening a Gift(Lv. 12+ for Great Balls and Lv. 20+ for Ultra Balls)
- Completing certain Field Research or Special Research tasks
- Weekly Adventure Sync rewards

The player also receives Poké Balls upon leveling up.

- Poké Balls awarded up to level 11 (including 50 Poké Balls starting at level 1)
- Great Balls awarded from level 12 to level 19
- Ultra Balls awarded starting level 20

Regular Poké Balls may be purchased in the Shop at the following rates:

- 20 for 100
- 100 for 460
- 200 for 800

All three types of balls have also been available in limited-time Box deals.

Premier Balls debuted in Pokémon GO on June 20, 2017,[citation needed] a few days after its first anniversary with the introduction of Raid Battles. They can only be used for catching Raid Bosses and Shadow Pokémon, and other types of Poké Balls cannot be used on them. If the player runs out, the Raid Boss or Shadow Pokémon will flee. The number of Premier Balls are awarded to the player after a Raid Battle or Team GO Rocket battle is based on how well they battled. Unused Premier Balls are not retained and do not roll over to future challenges. Like in the main series, Premier Balls are just as effective as regular Poké Balls.

Beast Balls debuted in Pokémon GO on July 1, 2022 at Pokémon GO Fest 2022 Berlin.[citation needed] They can only be used for catching Ultra Beasts, and other types of Poké Balls cannot be used on them. Currently, an unlimited number of Beast Balls are provided to the player during an Ultra Beast encounter.

Master Balls have existed in Pokémon GO's coding since release, but they didn't debut until May 22, 2023, as a reward from the Let's GO! Special Research. Future opportunities to get Master Balls are planned.[4]

GO Safari Balls will debut in Pokémon GO on November 16, 2024 at Pokémon GO Wild Area. The GO Safari Ball will be made available in Pokémon GO during the GO Wild Area event. They have a higher catch rate. When this event is active, players will receive GO Safari Balls from Timed Research and can use them in wild encounters.[5] All unused GO Safari Balls expire and disappear from the player's Bag at the end of each day of the event.[6][7] Pokémon caught in GO Safari Balls are unable to be sent to Pokémon HOME via the GO Transporter.

#### Description

| Image | English name | Japanese name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Poké Ball | モンスターボールMonster Ball | A device for catching wild Pokémon. It's thrown like a ball, comfortably encapsulating its target. |
| Great Ball | スーパーボールSuper Ball | A high-performance Ball with a higher catch rate than a standard Poké Ball. |
| Ultra Ball | ハイパーボールHyper Ball | An ultra-performance Ball with a higher catch rate than a Great Ball. |
| Master Ball | マスターボールMaster Ball | The best Poké Ball with the ultimate level of performance. With it, you will catch any wild Pokémon without fail. |
| Premier Ball | プレミアボールPremier Ball | A somewhat rare Poké Ball made to commemorate a special occasion of some sort. |
| Beast Ball | ウルトラボールUltra Ball | N/A |
| GO Safari Ball | サファリボールSafari Ball | N/A |

### Pokémon Snap

A Pester Ball

In Pokémon Snap, the Pester Balls appear similar to Poké Balls at a glance. However, they are not used to catch Pokémon, and instead will release a Pokémon repellent on contact.

### Pokémon UNITE

A Unite Ball catching a Pokémon

In Pokémon UNITE, Trainers use regular Poké Balls to send out their own Pokémon, after they have been knocked out in battle. (At the start of a Unite Battle, all Pokémon are present on the field.) During the game's tutorial, a Pikachu from the Aeos Research Institute is sent out from a Poké Ball twice. This happens before Tutorial (Basics 1) and Tutorial (Basics 2).

A unique variety of Poké Ball, the Unite Ball, is used as part of Unite Battles. (They are also known as Aeos Balls) Unite Balls are orange, purple, and yellow in colour, with a yellow stripe around in the middle and a white button. The pattern gives the Unite Ball a "U" design. Each Trainer has a Unite Ball, and uses it to catch the wild Pokémon their Pokémon knocks out in Unite Battles. After doing so, the Unite Ball stores the Aeos energy the Pokémon held. The stored energy is used by Pokémon to score at goal zones. At the start of an Unite Battle, the player's Unite Ball only holds a maximum of 30 Aeos energy. After their Pokémon reaches Level 9, the capacity increases to 40. At level 12, the capacity is boosted again to 50. Trainers only have one Unite Ball canonically, and the interface only depicts a single Unite Ball. Regardless, Trainers throw a Unite Ball for every wild Pokémon defeated even if more than one is defeated at the same time.

In Mer Stadium's Catch 'Em battles, certain wild Pokémon have a white glow around them. When these Pokémon are defeated and captured, the player can send them out from their Unite Ball to temporarily take the place of their selected Pokémon. This function replaces the Trainer's Battle Items. Additionally, after enough time has passed, the Battle Item will return to normal and that Pokémon will not be able to be switched into battle. If the captured Pokémon is sent out, a timer is set. When that timer elapses or the Pokémon faints, the Trainer's original Pokémon is sent back into battle from its Poké Ball. Defeating a Wild Pokémon while currently using a Caught Pokémon does not allow the player to switch to the defeated Wild Pokémon.

In Panic Parade, certain wild Pokémon have a white glow around them and a Aeos Ball icon over their heads. When these Pokémon are defeated and captured, the player can send them out from their Unite Ball. This function replaces the Trainer's Battle Item, and after using the Battle Item will return to normal. (Although "normal" in Panic Parade means no Battle Item at all.) If another item is picked up or another capturable Pokémon is captured, the first Pokémon is lost. The sent out Pokémon wanders to the nearest opposing Pokémon, uses their Unite Move, then is recalled and leaves the battle.

Unite Balls (mislabeled Poké Balls) are used as part of the Prize Machine menu. By throwing Unite Balls at one of the items on display, the prize gauge for that item is increased. When the prize gauge of an item is full, the item is obtained. A single Unite Ball has a 66% chance to add 1 unit to the prize gauge, a 30% chance to add 2 units to the prize gauge, a 3.3% chance to add 3 units, a 0.6% chance to add 5 units, and a 0.1% chance to add 10 units. Players have two Unite Balls to use in this menu. After using a Unite Ball, players must wait 12 hours before it can be used again. Players can spend Aeos gems to hasten this timer. Some events provide additional Unite Balls in the Prize Machine menu, under the umbrella name No-cost Holiday Balls. When available, only 10 of these Poké Balls can be obtained per day, and they are lost if they are not used before the next day begins. Usually there is a cap on the number of No-cost Holiday Balls obtainable per event, with that cap usually being 100. Sometimes, these additional Unite Balls have alternate names, such as Holiday Balls or Anniversary Balls. (Oddly, the menu's text states that "Poké Balls always hit their target..." in this mode, even though Unite Balls have never been shown to miss in any media.)

### Pokémon Pinball series

Main article: Ball Upgrade

In Pokémon Pinball and Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire, the Poké Ball, Great Ball, Ultra Ball, and Master Ball are available.

The Poké Ball is the normal ball used in the pinball tables since the beginning of the game. In both games, if the player lights up the three Field Multiplier Lanes found in all tables, the ball is upgraded to the next kind of Poké Ball (a Poké Ball is upgraded into a Great Ball, a Great Ball into an Ultra Ball, and an Ultra Ball into a Master Ball). If a minute passes without new Poké Ball upgrades, the ball returns to the previous state. If the player loses a ball, the next ball is a Poké Ball.

The bonus points are as follows:

- The Poké Ball has no bonus multiplier.
- The Great Ball multiplies bonus points by ×2.
- The Ultra Ball multiplies bonus points by ×3.
- The Master Ball multiplies bonus points by ×4 in Pokémon Pinball and by ×5 in Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire.

#### Pokémon Pinball

| Poké Ball | Great Ball | Ultra Ball | Master Ball |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

#### Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire

| Poké Ball | Great Ball | Ultra Ball | Master Ball |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

### Learn with Pokémon: Typing Adventure

In Learn with Pokémon: Typing Adventure, the Typing Balls are thrown after one successfully types a Pokémon's name. It has the overall design like that of a normal Poké Ball, only having an additional vertical line at the bottom, resembling the letter "T".

A Typing Ball

### Super Smash Bros. series

Render of a Poké Ball from Super Smash Bros. Brawl

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Poké Balls appear as items, which fighters can pick up and throw to release a random Pokémon. These Pokémon will typically attack the opponents of the player who summoned them, but may also have other effects. Starting in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U, the Master Ball also appears as an item, which has the same effect as Poké Balls but can only summon Legendary or Mythical Pokémon(or Goldeen).

The Pokémon that can appear from Poké Balls differ between the games. The Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. all come from Generation I, the Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. Melee come from up to Generation II, the Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. Brawl come from up to Generation IV, the Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U come from up to Generation VI, and the Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate come from up to Generation VII. The only Pokémon that have appeared in all of the Super Smash Bros. games as Poké Ball Pokémon are Goldeen, Snorlax, and Mew.

The Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros. for 3DS

The Master Ball in Super Smash Bros. for 3DS

The Pokémon series as a whole is represented by a Poké Ball logo in the Super Smash Bros. series. The logo was updated in Brawl.

The Pokémon series' symbol from SSB and Melee

The Pokémon series' symbol from Brawl, SSB4, and Ultimate.

#### Super Smash Bros. Melee

Poké Ball trophy These balls are used to catch and contain wild Pokémon. Most Pokémon must be weakened in some way before they can be caught, but once they're inside a Poké Ball, they enjoy their new home, since Poké Balls contain an environment specially designed for Pokémon comfort. Master Balls are the strongest type.

#### Super Smash Bros. Brawl

Poké Ball trophy "An item used for capturing Pokémon and calling them out into battle. Pokémon live in these items which despite appearances, actually contain a wide, comfortable Pokémon-friendly world inside them. In Super Smash Bros., Pokémon give temporary support to who calls them out. You never know which you will get, but some are devastatingly powerful."

#### Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U

Poké Ball trophy in Super Smash Bros. for 3DS Poké Ball trophy NA: An item used to call out different Pokémon. Which Pokémon emerges is a mystery, but it will aid whoever threw the Poké Ball. Some of the Pokémon contained inside are extremely powerful and will really intensify the battle. It's definitely worth beating your opponents to these! PAL: A ball holding one of any number of Pokémon just waiting to burst out and help you in battle. Which kind will it be? Well, that's a surprise, but whichever one it is, it'll definitely up the intensity of the battle! If you see one, make sure you're the one to grab it!

Master Ball trophy in Super Smash Bros. for 3DS Master Ball trophy NA: These valuable, powerful balls can capture any wild Pokémon. In Smash Bros., hard-to-find Pokémon often pop out of them. You can easily identify a Master Ball by the distinct purple appearance and large M on the top. A Pokémon within a Master Ball may turn the tide of battle. PAL: A rare type of Poké Ball that never fails to catch a Pokémon. Throw one in this game, and the Mythical or Legendary Pokémon inside will come to your aid. Master Balls are easy to identify due to their purple colour and the large M on them. Use one to quickly turn the tide of any battle!

### Pokémon Tower Battle

In Pokémon Tower Battle, the featured Pokémon come from Poké Balls, with some rare Pokémon from Ultra Balls and Master Balls.

### Camp Pokémon

This section is a stub. You can help Bulbapedia by expanding it.

In Camp Pokémon, the Poké Ball Roll minigame features the Poké Ball, Great Ball, Ultra Ball, and Master Ball.

### Pokémon Sleep

Main article: Poké Biscuit

Poké Balls do not exist in Pokémon Sleep. Instead, Poké Biscuits are used to "befriend" Pokémon (which is the same mechanic as catching them in the core series games).

## In animation

Interior of a Poké Ball in Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl

### Pokémon the Series

#### Mechanics

Paul releasing Chimchar Concept art of a Poké Ball for Pokémon the Series: The Beginning

In Pokémon the Series, Poké Balls are not always at full size. Pressing the button on the front will convert it between its full size, about the size of a baseball, to a smaller size, about that of a ping-pong ball, and back again. The larger size makes throwing the ball easier, while the smaller one makes for easier storage on a belt clip, in pockets, and in Bags.

When a Pokémon is sent out from a Poké Ball, it will be accompanied by a distinctive sound effect and a bright light as it returns from its energy form and materializes nearby, often on the ground. This bright light has been shown to vary depending on the type of Ball in which the Pokémon is contained in the games, while it has always been shown to be white in Pokémon the Series. Pokémon are recalled to their Poké Ball by holding up the Poké Ball with its button pointed at the Pokémon. A beam of red, white, or blue light will shoot from the button, converting the Pokémon back into energy and returning it to the Ball. The beam, however, has a limited range and can be dodged by the Pokémon. If the beam hits a person, they will be stunned for a moment, but aside from that, no ill effects will make themselves apparent.

Releasing a Pokémon from a Trainer's ownership, unlike normally sending the Pokémon out, will bathe the Pokémon in a blue glow, and the Poké Ball will no longer mark it, making it able to be caught by another Trainer's Poké Ball.

A Poké Ball can also be broken, which will release it from ownership, as seen when Jessie releases her Dustox in Crossing Paths. If a Trainer has done so accidentally, it must somehow be fixed before the Pokémon can be recalled. This was seen in Pokémon Food Fight!, where Ash becomes unable to recall Snorlax after its Poké Ball is broken. In the manga, if a Poké Ball is broken before a Pokémon is sent out, then that particular Pokémon cannot be used until their Poké Ball has been repaired. This happened several times in the Pokémon Adventures manga, such as during Red's battle against Giovanni, where the opening mechanism for the Poké Balls of Red's Venusaur and Gyarados were damaged, preventing either of them from being used in the match.

In Just Waiting On A Friend, an old Poké Ball was shown to bind the Pokémon caught with it, a Ninetales, to staying close to it, making it unable to leave its home until the Poké Ball was broken. This seems to be a quality unique to this particular Poké Ball, as later series have featured Pokémon venturing a long distance away from their Poké Balls, such as Goh's Suicune, which was able to remain as a roaming Pokémon despite not leaving Goh's ownership.

Iris's Dragonite inside a Poké Ball in Pokémon the Series: Black & White

Pokémon appear to be conscious while inside Poké Balls. Several Pokémon have shown the ability to leave and return to their Poké Balls at will, most notably among them Jessie's Wobbuffet, Misty's Psyduck, Ash's Oshawott, Brock's Croagunk, and Clemont's Chespin, who tend to do so in every episode that they appear in. In Dig Those Diglett!, many Pokémon belonging to Gary Oak, as well as other Trainers, including Ash Ketchum, demonstrated the ability to prevent themselves from being sent from their Poké Balls, as they refused to fight against the Diglett, though this has not been demonstrated since. Pokémon have also been shown to be able to hear orders given by their Trainer right before they are sent out.

Pokémon can even make their Poké Ball jump and roll around at high speeds, while also being able to navigate, as seen in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, when the partner Pokémon moves its Poké Ball onto an empty pedestal in Professor Oak's Laboratory after being caught in Pallet Town.

A Poké Ball failing to catch an already owned Pokémon

Poké Balls are able to communicate with a Trainer's Pokédex, as the system updates itself with information on newly caught Pokémon, and keeps track of how many Pokémon the Trainer has with them. If a Trainer catches a new Pokémon with the full six already with them, the Pokédex will automatically send the newly caught Pokémon in its Poké Ball to the Pokémon Storage System that the Trainer is using. As shown in Two Degrees of Separation!, a Pokémon caught by a Poké Ball is "marked" by it, and thus most Poké Balls thrown at it will have no effect aside from temporarily stunning it. In the games, as well as in Bad To The Bone, however, the Trainer of the Pokémon will block a Poké Ball thrown by another, though it is possible that this is more out of courtesy to their Pokémon than to prevent capture outright. In Charmander – The Stray Pokémon, Ash was able to catch his Charmander in a Poké Ball despite his previous ownership by another Trainer, though he may have lost his "mark" when he abandoned his previous Trainer by refusing to return to his old Poké Ball. Earlier in the same episode, Ash failed to catch the same Charmander while he still held his loyalty, despite his weakened state.

Ash catching a rice ball thrown by a wild Mankey

Other wireless capabilities of Poké Balls are shown in Destiny Deoxys, as when the electricity of the city is down, Rebecca claims that the "Poké Ball Management System" was no longer working without power. A similar mechanism is suggested to exist in the games, with the Paradise Protection Protocol issuing a lock signal that disables the use of any Poké Balls that do not have a specific ID.

Poké Balls are able to be decorated to no ill effect, with several Poké Balls that have been painted with special colors being seen in the Pokémon the Series.

Should a Pokémon escape a Poké Ball, the device will return to the Trainer, who can attempt once again to catch the Pokémon.

It has sometimes been shown that items can be contained in Poké Balls, apparently able to be captured in much the same way as a Pokémon. Pokémon the Series has used this as a gag on several occasions, most notably in Primeape Goes Bananas, where Ash accidentally catches a rice ball when he throws a Poké Ball in an attempt to catch a wild Mankey.

#### Types of Poké Balls

A regular Poké Ball in Pokémon the Series Ash pulling out a Poké Ball, preparing to catch a Pokémon

In Pokémon the Series, the basic Poké Ball is the most commonly used of all varieties, with other varieties appearing either very few times or not at all. A vast majority of Pokémon are shown to be stored in regular Poké Balls, to the point that large collections of Poké Balls can be seen with no variation among them. Even Ash's Pikachu, the most prominent Pokémon in the series, which spends all its time outside with Ash, has a plain Poké Ball that differs from others only by the small yellow lightning bolt symbol on it, as seen in Pokémon - I Choose You!.

Despite this, the various other types of Poké Ball have been seen in Pokémon the Series, usually to illustrate a special property about that particular ball. The lack of the different types is unsurprising, however, due to the fact that, when the animated series was first created, the games themselves did not even keep track of the Poké Ball that a Pokémon was caught in, and thus, it made no difference in sending a Pokémon out. This has recently become less common as of Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, possibly to reflect the fact that NPC Trainers in Generation VII have certain types of Poké Balls associated with them.

The first time that a Poké Ball aside from the normal variation was seen was in EP035, where Ash was given 30 Safari Balls in order to compete in the Safari Game. With these 30 Safari Balls, Ash attempted to catch various rare Pokémon; however, he only managed to capture an entire herd of Tauros. They appeared in Safari Balls in Showdown at the Po-Ké Corral; however, whenever Ash uses one of his Tauros in a battle, it is sent out from a standard Poké Ball.

The GS Ball was the second of the variant Poké Balls to appear in Pokémon the Series, first appearing in Poké Ball Peril, this time with a special purpose. This mysterious ball was unable to be opened by Professor Ivy, and served as the reason for Ash's journeys to the Orange Islands(to pick it up) and Johto(to deliver it to Kurt), so that what was contained within it could be discovered. Celebi was long rumored to be related to the ball, something which the Pokémon Adventures and game canons verify, while a director of the animated series confirmed that, had it not been insisted that Celebi appear in a central role in the fourth movie, the GS Ball arc would have concluded with Celebi being released from the ball and traveling with Ash and his friends.

Also related to Kurt, as in the games, the first non-standard Poké Ball variants, the Apricorn balls, made an appearance in Pokémon the Series, and several were given to the members of the main cast. All three members of the main cast received a Fast Ball each in Going Apricorn!, with Brock using his to catch a Pineco shortly after receiving it. Many other Apricorn Poké Balls also appeared in a fantasy in this episode. In the next episode, Brock received a Heavy Ball, while Ash and Misty received a Lure Ball each. While Brock's Heavy Ball and Ash and Misty's Fast Balls would remain unused (and have not been mentioned since), both Ash and Misty would use their Lure Balls to capture a Totodile and Corsola, respectively. Another Heavy Ball appeared in Gulpin It Down, where it was used to capture a giant Gulpin, though this was not the one belonging to Brock. In Trouble's Brewing, the Kimono Sisters(excluding Sakura) were shown keeping their Eeveelutions inside Apricorn Poké Balls, with Satsuki's Jolteon's ball being a Moon Ball, Sumomo's Vaporeon's ball being a Lure Ball, and Tamao's Umbreon's ball being a Fast Ball. While Koume's Flareon's ball wasn't shown, her kimono pattern indicates it being a Love Ball.

Ash calling out a Pokémon

The Master Ball itself has only appeared once as an actual Poké Ball, in Whiscash and Ash, where it was used by Sullivan in a last resort attempt to catch a wild Whiscash called " Nero". Despite the fact that a Master Ball cannot be escaped from, the Whiscash swallowed the Master Ball, thus preventing capture, and disappeared back into the water. While not a Poké Ball itself, Misty owns a beach ball that is designed like the Master Ball, which can be seen in Beauty and the Beach and A Hot Water Battle.

The Generation III specialty balls have mostly been seen in cameos. The Repeat Ball and Luxury Ball appeared in the opening of Jirachi: Wish Maker. These balls contained Brendan's Shiftry and Aggron, respectively.

The debut of most of the specialty balls, both from Generation III and IV, came in the ending Which One ~ Is It?, which contained the first appearance of the Great Ball and Ultra Ball, as well as the first animated series appearance of the Premier, Heal, Net, Dusk, Nest, Quick, Timer, and Dive Balls.

The first proper appearance of the Great, Ultra, Net, Nest, Dusk, Dive, Repeat, Premier, and Heal Balls was in A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, where these balls were seen being manufactured at the Poké Ball Factory, in addition to normal Poké Balls, Luxury Balls, and Safari Balls, although the last ones were not shown. Although James did mention a Quick Ball in the Japanese version, one was never shown in the episode (a fact that was picked up by the dub, which removed the Quick Ball reference). Team Rocket tried to steal many of these Poké Balls, but were foiled by Ash and his friends.

Dawn's Poké Balls with Ball Capsules and Seals

It was revealed in First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style! that James had been collecting Poké Balls. When Jessie's attempts to catch a Mimikyu with typical Poké Balls had failed, she grabbed the Luxury Ball James had been polishing and used it instead, capturing Mimikyu, much to James's dismay. The rest of James's collection appeared in Acting True to Form!, where it was revealed to also contain a Great, Ultra, Premier, Dusk, Heal, and Quick Ball, marking the first animated series appearance of a Quick Ball. The collection reappeared in Splash, Dash, and Smash for the Crown!, where it now consisted of a Premier, Dive, Nest, Quick, Heal, and Dusk Ball.

Gladion keeps all of his known Pokémon in special Poké Balls. His Lycanroc is kept in an Ultra Ball (as first seen in A Glaring Rivalry!), his Silvally is kept in a Premier Ball (as first seen in Rising from the Ruins!), his Umbreon is kept in a Heal Ball (as first seen in Rescuing the Unwilling!), his Zoroark is kept in a Dusk Ball (as first seen in the Poké Problem extra scene of SM127), and his Nihilego is kept in a Beast Ball (as first seen in The Homecoming Crown!).

James's Poké Ball collection

Beast Balls debuted in A Mission of Ultra Urgency!, in which the Aether Foundation provided multiple of them for Ash and his classmates to use during their missions as Ultra Guardians. Since then, Beast Balls have appeared in a number of episodes. Most of the time they are only used to temporarily hold Ultra Beasts until they are released back into Ultra Space. The only Ultra Beasts that have been kept in a Beast Ball for longer than one episode are Ash's Naganadel and Gladion's Nihilego.

In Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, Leon used an Ultra Ball in an attempt to catch Eternatus, only for Eternatus to break out.

A sealed Poké Ball

Many other Poké Balls have been shown in Pokémon the Series; however, most of these are cosmetic alterations alone, such as Poké Balls with gold plating, diamond studded Poké Balls, and Poké Balls with stickers or special designs on them, usually to denote an organization. Ball Capsules and Seals can also be used to customize a Poké Ball's appearance, and they add special effects when the Pokémon is sent out. In the series, they are mostly used by Coordinators during Pokémon Contests to create a showy entrance and ensure that the Pokémon will make a good impression right out of the Poké Ball.

Notably, a broken Poké Ball, snapped in half at its rusted hinges, was kept by both Ash and Gary, symbolizing their rivalry. After Ash defeated Gary during the Silver Conference, Gary gave his half of the Ball to Ash as a sign of ending their rivalry.

In Mystery at the Lighthouse, it was shown that if a Trainer catches a Pokémon while they already have six on hand, it is automatically sent to the regional Professor. Sewaddle and Burgh in Pinwheel Forest shows a major difference in what happens after a Pokémon is captured. Instead of being automatically sent to the regional Professor, the Poké Ball is sealed and the button becomes red. The Pokémon is kept inactive until it is switched out by another actively in the Trainer's party.

##### Other variants

A green Poké Ball appeared in Pokémon - I Choose You!. Interestingly, the cover of the book Grass Pokédex greatly resembles this Poké Ball, and is labeled as a Safari Ball.

- In addition to this, the artwork of Brendan, in Ruby and Sapphire, features Brendan holding a green Poké Ball.

###### Gallery

A green Poké Ball in Pokémon - I Choose You!

The Poké Ball containing Bulbasaur in Pokémon - I Choose You!

The Poké Ball containing Charmander in Pokémon - I Choose You!

The Poké Ball containing Squirtle in Pokémon - I Choose You!

The Poké Ball containing Pikachu in Pokémon - I Choose You!

The golden Poké Ball containing James's Magikarp in Pokémon Shipwreck

A PIA Nurse Joy's Poké Ball in Showdown at Dark City

A diamond-encrusted Poké Ball in Go West Young Meowth

Mewtwo's Mewtwo Balls

The GS Ball

Molly Hale holding a Crystal Poké Ball

300+ year old modern Poké Balls

The Lake Ball from Hook, Line, and Stinker

Lokoko's old Poké Ball from Just Waiting On a Friend

A Poké Ball used in the Battle Park in One Trick Phony!

A Team Rocket Ball from Mewtwo Returns

Iron-Masked Marauder holding a Dark Ball

Sammy's old Poké Ball from Celebi: The Voice of the Forest

Annie and Oakley's Poké Balls from Pokémon Heroes: Latios & Latias

A promotional toy version of Annie and Oakley's Poké Balls, produced by Tomy

Claydol's giant stone Poké Ball from Claydol, Big and Tall

A relic holding the King of Pokélantis's spirit

A Fishing Poké Ball from A Fishing Connoisseur in a Fishy Competition!

A Catch Race Poké Ball from The Power of Us

Team Rocket Balls from Pokémon Journeys: The Series

A Dynamaxed Poké Ball in Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!

- Dynamaxed Poké Balls were first used in Flash of the Titans! during Lance and Leon's World Coronation Series battle. In Sword and Shield... The Legends Awaken!, Goh, with Ash's help, used a Dynamaxed Poké Ball to catch a weakened Eternatus, which was later sealed away.

#### History

Main article: History of Poké Balls

As mentioned, the generic Poké Ball design is not constant and has been remodeled and altered innumerable times in order to create new Poké Balls that are adapted for specific conditions. For example, it is seen in several Pokémon the Series episodes such as Gulpin it Down! and Claydol Big and Tall that normal Poké Balls have difficulty catching Pokémon which are extremely large or extremely heavy. In the latter episode, it is revealed that ancient civilizations overcame this issue by constructing immense Poké Balls many times the size of the standard model known today, and made from stone instead. Other civilizations such as Pokémopolis also discovered new technologies that more closely resembled modern Poké Ball technology, such as the Dark Device and the Unearthly Urn, which were also adapted for the capture and storage of massive Pokémon but in small containers. However, devices like these became lost to the ages and their roles were subsequently supplanted by Heavy Balls in the modern world.

In A Shipful of Shivers, modern Poké Balls are found in the ghost ship, implying that modern Poké Balls were first made at least 300 years ago. According to Pocket Monsters: The Animation, Poké Balls were developed to allow for various Trainers to efficiently capture and train Pokémon in relatively little risk to themselves, as the act of training a Pokémon often results in severe injuries and even death. It also claims that the Pokémon Primeape and its notoriously violent nature was directly responsible for their creation.

Prior to the invention of Poké Balls, Pokémon were referred to as magical creatures (Japanese: 魔獣 majū), indicating that the name Pokémon, short for Pocket Monster, did not come into common parlance as a term until Poké Balls allowed the various magical creatures to be stored easily.

#### Pokédex entries

| Episode | Subject | Source | Entry |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| EP001 | Poké Ball | Ash's Pokédex | While being trained, a Pokémon usually stays inside its Poké Ball. However, there are many exceptions. Some Pokémon hate being confined. |

### Pokémon Horizons: The Series

A Poké Ball after catching a Pokémon in Pokémon Horizons: The Series

Poké Balls in Pokémon Horizons: The Series work the same way they do in Pokémon the Series.

As shown in Where the Adventure Leads, when a Trainer dies, their Poké Balls automatically release all of their Pokémon back into the wild.

#### Other variants

- Ancient Poké Balls are a special type of Poké Ball. The search for these Poké Balls is an important plot within Pokémon Horizons: The Series. The only known Ancient Poké Balls all belonged to the Ancient Adventurer Lucius, who used them to capture the members of the Six Heroes. In addition to capturing Pokémon, they seem to have unique powers and react to certain stimuli, like Rystal's Terapagos, Pagogo, and Lucius's other Ancient Poké Balls.
- In Orla and the Poké Ball Smith, several custom-made Poké Balls created by Karna were shown. These include the Rocket Ball, which has miniature rocket engines that boost its speed; the Boomerang Ball, which curves back around once thrown; the Bomb-Bomb Ball, which has a fuse that lights up when the ball is about to be thrown and causes the ball to explode when it burns out; the Chase Ball, which homes in on the target Pokémon on a set of wheels; and an unnamed Ball that Karna gave to Orla as a gift at the end of the episode.
- In The Wonders of the World!, Gibeon was revealed to keep his Zygarde in a Poké Ball that resembles the Ancient Poké Ball used by Lucius and are just as old as them.
- In We Are the Rising Volt Tacklers!, Orla have Karna a handmade Poké Ball as a parting gift when she left to rejoin the Rising Volt Tacklers.

##### Gallery

An Ancient Poké Ball in Pokémon Horizons: The Series

Some of Karna's custom Poké Balls from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

A Rocket Ball from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

A Boomerang Ball from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

A Bomb-Bomb Ball from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

A Chase Ball from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

One of Karna's custom Poké Balls from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

One of Karna's custom Poké Balls from Orla and the Poké Ball Smith

Gibeon's Poké Ball from The Earthshaking White Zygarde

Orla's custom Poké Ball from We Are the Rising Volt Tacklers!

### Pokémon Origins

A Poké Ball in Pokémon Origins

Besides the regular Poké Ball, the other Generation I variations of it were also seen during the Pokémon Origins miniseries. In File 3: Giovanni, it was shown that Giovanni kept his strongest Pokémon, Rhyhorn and Rhydon, within Ultra Balls. In File 4: Charizard, Red was seen catching an Arbok with a Great Ball and a Chansey with a Safari Ball. He also used Ultra Balls to capture the Legendary Pokémon Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres, and Mewtwo.

The Master Ball only appeared in a demonstration in File 3: Giovanni, as it was still under development at the time. After Team Rocket was driven out of the Silph Co. building by Red, the development of the Master Ball was put on hold for a while.

Additionally, in Pokémon Origins, the sound effects and bright light used when a Trainer is catching, sending out, or recalling a Pokémon differ in comparison to the sound effects and lights that are used in the animated series, more resembling the effects seen in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen.

### Pokémon Generations

An Ultra Ball in Pokémon Generations

The only Poké Ball variant seen in Pokémon Generations was an Ultra Ball, which appeared in The Scoop. It was shown being used by a Trainer to catch a Deoxys in outer space.

## In live-action media

### The Strength of the Master

In the Brazilian music video The Strength of the Master, there are CGI-animated Poké Balls with the stylized "E" logo of the performer Eliana.

The Eliana Poké Balls are sometimes seen slowly floating or flying fast in the air, and often used as screen transitions during the music video. Eliana is also shown throwing this Poké Ball. The Eliana Poké Balls usually appear in a red version (but with the white half at the top, as opposed to the regular Poké Ball), but there is also a blue version.

At some point, two Eliana Poké Balls float in the air and glow in front of a boy and a girl, magically causing them to wear cosplays of Ash and Misty.

Eliana Poké Ball

Eliana Poké Ball (blue version)

Eliana Poké Balls floating

Eliana Poké Balls after causing the children to wear cosplays

## In the manga

In the various Pokémon manga, Poké Balls have been shown to appear differently, as an attempt to explain how a Trainer knows which Pokémon is in which ball, as most Pokémon manga series were, like the animated series, developed at a time when the games could not keep track of the ball a Pokémon was contained in.

### The Electric Tale of Pikachu

A Poké Ball in The Electric Tale of Pikachu The Enormo Poké Ball-X1

In The Electric Tale of Pikachu, the rules are more similar to the animated series; however, Poké Balls are numbered on the outside, on the button, so that a Trainer knows which member of their team they are sending into battle. In The Electric Tale of Pikachu, Trainers must obtain a license before they are legally allowed to purchase Poké Balls.

It is also possible for a Pokémon to be placed inside a Poké Ball without it being owned by a Trainer. In Days of Gloom and Glory, Meowzie steals a Poké Ball from a shop and puts her kitten in it so that it will not be hurt by a flood affecting the city.

In Haunting My Dreams, a giant Poké Ball named the Enormo Poké Ball-X1 (Japanese: ビッグモンスターボールX1 Big Monster Ball-X1) or EPB-X1 for short, was created to capture the gigantic Haunter, Black Fog. It was destroyed when the Black Fog used Explosion to free itself after being captured.

### Magical Pokémon Journey

In Magical Pokémon Journey, the main characters generally do not capture Pokémon, rather, they befriend them. Although Almond, one of the main characters, is known to be a Pokémon Trainer, he is not actually depicted capturing or raising any Pokémon. In fact, in the bonus materials of Volume 2, in which the cast of the manga meet Ash, Misty, and Brock in a series of crossovers, it is revealed that Hazel and Coconut do not even know what Poké Balls are. When Ash and Misty explain that they are used to capture Pokémon, they both proceed to attempt to use them to capture Almond, as he is each of their love interest.

### Pokémon Adventures

Yellow's Seadra inside his Poké Ball in Pokémon Adventures

In the Pokémon Adventures manga, the tops of Poké Balls are semitransparent, allowing the Pokémon inside, which is miniaturized, to be seen through the ball, while the Pokémon can likewise see out of the ball it is contained in. In this manga, unlike in the animated series, Pokémon already captured can be recaught in another Poké Ball, as is seen when Red recatches Misty's Gyarados in Gyarados Splashes In!(though Blue states that catching a Pokémon that belongs to another is not possible in Lapras Lazily).

Like in the animated series and the games, specialty balls do exist, although they are much more commonly used than in the animated series. In Holy Moltres, Team Rocket was shown to have caught the legendary birds in Ultra Balls. In And Mewtwo... Three!, Blaine gave Red the Master Ball, which Red used to catch Mewtwo shortly afterwards; much later, Blaine himself caught Mewtwo with the Master Ball when Mewtwo decided to return to Blaine's training. In Teddiursa's Picnic, Gold and Silver received a Friend Ball and Heavy Ball, respectively, with Silver using his ball to catch an Ursaring, while Gold used his to catch a Teddiursa for Maizie. Close to the end of the Gold, Silver & Crystal arc, the Masked Man was shown creating a GS Ball and using it to catch Celebi. In Innocent Scientist, Blake used Luxury Balls while trying to catch the Genesect controlled by Colress, eventually succeeding. In Abyssal Ruins, Blake gave Whitley a Quick Ball to catch a Karrablast. In Scizor Defends, a Quick Ball was seen amongst the Poké Balls that Y had used while trying to catch an Absol.

Safari Balls have been seen being used by Red at the Kanto Safari Zone, by Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum at the Great Marsh, and by Silver at the Johto Safari Zone. Crystal and Emerald have also been shown using special balls to catch Pokémon, with Crystal specializing in Apricorn balls and Emerald specializing in Poké Balls introduced in Generation III.

Additionally, the three original types of Poké Ball are used to identify the Trainer's rank; most Trainers keep their Pokémon in Poké Balls, Gym Leaders use Great Balls, and Elite Four members use Ultra Balls.

In the Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun & Ultra Moon arc, Beast Balls were created for the Aether Foundation by Blake, who was disguised as Colress, as a means of catching Ultra Beasts. Sun used one to catch his Stakataka in Madness!! Mother Lusamine!.

Like in the games, but unlike the animated series, Pokémon placed in their balls don't recover from status conditions nor regain lost health, no matter how much time passes.

#### Variants

- Bruno has modified his Poké Balls so that they are fitted onto the ends of his nunchucks. By swinging them quickly and throwing the nunchuck forward, Bruno can have his Pokémon quickly attack his opponent, giving him the advantage.
- Koga and his daughter Janine modified their Poké Balls into shuriken to fit their ninja theme. In addition to being used as weapons, they can also be used to have their Pokémon pop up from different locations to surprise the opponent or to hold items to help an ally.
- Bugsy had Kurt modify his butterfly net into something he calls a Capture Net. His net has a Poké Ball nested into the middle of it. The bag of the net is made of the same material of the inside of a Poké Ball. Once a Pokémon is covered in the bag, they will automatically be sucked into the Poké Ball.
- Falkner has modified his Poké Balls into boomerangs using the feathers of his Skarmory. Because of Skarmory's feathers being transparent, they have the tendency to turn invisible, confusing enemies when Falkner throws them in random directions only for them to turn around and go straight for them.
- Erika and Moon modified their Poké Balls to be at the end of their arrows.
- In It Takes Patience, Knowledge and a Really Quick Beedrill, Giovanni used a specifically designed Poké Ball with the letters "DNA" on its top half to capture Deoxys.
- Multiple Dynamaxed Poké Balls appeared in the Sword & Shield arc, being used to both capture Dynamax Pokémon and send them out.

Bruno's nunchuck with Poké Balls on them

Koga's shuriken Poké Ball

Bugsy's Capture Net

Falkner's boomerang Poké Balls

Erika with one of her Poké Ball arrows

Moon with one of her Poké Ball arrows

Giovanni's Deoxys Poké Ball

A Dynamaxed Poké Ball

### Pokémon Gold & Silver: The Golden Boys

Besides regular Poké Balls, Apricorn Poké Balls also received notable attention in the Pokémon Gold & Silver: The Golden Boys manga. They were first featured in The Great Search! Let's Rescue The Slowpoke!, where Gold and Kurt used some of Kurt's hand-made Poké Balls to save a group of Slowpoke from drowning in the flooding Slowpoke Well. Kurt's Level Ball also proved crucial in stopping the Black Tyranitar's rampage during the manga's climax.

### Pokémon: Yeah! I Got Pokémon!

A Poké Ball in Pokémon Pocket Monsters

In Pokémon: Yeah! I Got Pokémon!, Poké Balls are depicted as solid, with no visual identification as to which Poké Ball is which. In Special Chapter - Get Pikachu!, it is revealed that when Shu met Pikachu, Pikachu's Poké Ball had been abandoned in a forest because it was defective and it was causing Pikachu's electricity to be released throughout the surrounding area.

### Pokémon Pocket Monsters

In Pokémon Pocket Monsters, Poké Balls are often shown as transparent to identify when a Pokémon is inside. They usually have their typical appearance from far away, suggesting that they may not always be transparent, or are only see-through from up close. Pokémon appear to be able to see the world outside of their Poké Balls, as shown in Bring Down the Powerful Opponent Onix!!, when Clefairy sees Pikachu inside his Poké Ball, and they talk to each other. In Introducing the Pokémon Clefairy!!, when Green is choosing Charmander as his first partner Pokémon, he is shown to be able to pick up and lift Charmander directly from the Poké Ball without throwing it first.

Red's Pikachu inside his Poké Ball, in his debut appearance

Green's Charmander being lifted from its Poké Ball

## In the TCG

Ultra Ball

Many variants of Poké Ball have been released in card form in the Pokémon Trading Card Game, ranging from the standard variants found in the games and other media to variants specific to the TCG. Generally, Poké Balls are depicted as Item cards that search the player's deck for Pokémon and put them into the player's hand. Many Poké Ball cards require some number of successful coin flips in order to allow for the search to succeed, but some cards use the order of the player's deck to create inconsistency instead. There are even Poké Ball cards that are guaranteed to work, but these cards are balanced by only finding specific subsets of Pokémon, requiring some cost to be paid, or having another drawback.

Some cards, such as Apricorn Maker and Ball Guy, refer to Poké Ball cards as a group, using the phrase "Item cards that have the word “Ball” in their name". This phraseology excludes cards with "Balloon" in their name even though they otherwise meet the criteria. (An example of an excluded card was Bursting Balloon, before the errata that changed Pokémon Tool cards to be a subtype of Trainer cards rather than Item cards.)

### List of Poké Ball cards based on the games

- The standard Poké Ball card, which was the first released, debuted in the Jungle expansion and has since been featured in many others. It requires the player to flip a coin and if it is successful, it searches the deck for a Pokémon and puts it in the player's hand.
- The Ultra Ball can be seen in the artwork of Rocket's Sneak Attack, from the Team Rocket expansion. The 'H' on this Ultra Ball is derived from its Japanese name, Hyper Ball. The Ultra Ball itself would debut in Dark Explorers, with its effect requiring the player to discard 2 cards from the hand to search the deck for any single Pokémon.
- The Great Ball, which first appeared in the TCG expansion coinciding with the remakes of the Generation I games, is somewhat of an upgrade to the Poké Ball, and does not require the coin flip that the Poké Ball does, instead restricting the search to Basic Pokémon. Later, in Emerging Powers, Great Ball's effect was changed to have the player search the top 7 cards of the deck for any one Pokémon card and put it in the hand.
- The Master Ball, first appearing in the Gym Challenge expansion, and in the games the most powerful of the Poké Balls, provides a vastly different effect than the standard. Rather than searching the entire deck, only the top seven cards may be searched. One Pokémon found in these seven can be put into the hand, while the rest must be shuffled back into the deck. In Plasma Blast, the Master Ball was changed to an ACE SPEC card that allowed the player to search the entire deck for any one Pokémon. This effect is similar to Ultra Ball, but without the discard cost.
- Debuting in the Skyridge expansion, the Lure Ball is different from the basic Poké Balls in that it draws from the discard pile rather than the deck. For each heads flipped, with a maximum of three, an Evolution card can be returned from the discard pile and put into the hand. It has since been reprinted in Celestial Storm.
- Also debuting in Skyridge, the Friend Ball, another Apricorn Ball, has a unique effect entirely, allowing the user to search their deck for a Pokémon of the same type as one of the opponent's Pokémon and put it into their hand. It is effective in decks that typically match up well against their own type. It was also reprinted in Celestial Storm.
- The Fast Ball allows the player to go through their deck, turning over cards one at a time until they find the first Evolution card, and then taking that into their hand, shuffling afterward. Like the other two Apricorn Balls, it debuted in Skyridge, but unlike the others, it has not appeared since.
- The Premier Ball, debuting in the Great Encounters expansion, is special, much as in the games, and allows the player to search either the deck or the discard pile for a Pokémon LV.X to put into their hand.
- The Luxury Ball, first released in the Stormfront expansion, is among the rarest of the Poké Ball varieties in the games, though its catch rate is the same as that of a normal Poké Ball. Likewise it is so with the TCG, allowing a non- LV.X Pokémon to be searched from the deck, but only if another Luxury Ball card is not in the discard pile.
- The Quick Ball released in the Mysterious Treasures expansion has a similar effect to the Fast Ball released in Skyridge, allowing the player to uncover cards from their deck until they find a Pokémon. An expansion of the Fast Ball's use, any Pokémon can be found, though this may prove an issue if the player is looking for an Evolution card specifically and finds a Basic Pokémon first, and vice versa. The Quick Ball was rereleased in the Sword & Shield expansion with a different effect, requiring players to discard 1 card in order to search their deck for a Basic Pokémon.
- The Dusk Ball, also first released in Mysterious Treasures, features an effect somewhat opposite from that of the pre-Plasma Blast version of Master Ball: Instead of the top seven cards being searched, only the bottom seven cards may be, and a Pokémon found there may be put into the player's hand.
- The Heavy Ball, first released in Next Destinies, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon who has a Retreat Cost of 3 or more and put it into their hand.
- The Level Ball, also first released in Next Destinies, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon that has 90 HP or less and put it into their hand.
- The Dive Ball, released only in Primal Clash, allows the player to search their deck for a Water-type Pokémon and put it into their hand.
- The Repeat Ball, released only in Primal Clash, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon with the same name as one of their Pokémon in play and put it into their hand.
- The Nest Ball, first released in Sun & Moon, allows the player to search their deck for a Basic Pokémon and put it onto their Bench.
- The Timer Ball, first released in Sun & Moon, allows the player to search their deck for a number of Evolution Pokémon equal to the number of heads from flipping two coins.
- The Net Ball, first released in Lost Thunder, allows the player to search their deck for a Basic Pokémon or a Energy card and put it into their hand.
- The Beast Ball, first released in Celestial Storm, allows the player to look at their Prize Cards, and swap an Ultra Beast found there with the Beast Ball card.
- The Cherish Ball, first released in Unified Minds, allows the player to search their deck for any Pokémon-GX and put it into their hand.
- The Dream Ball, first released in Evolving Skies, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon and put it on their bench, but the card can only be played if the player took it as a face down Prize card.
- The Feather Ball, first released in Astral Radiance, allows the player to search their deck for a Pokémon with no Retreat Cost and put it into their hand.
- The Hisuian Heavy Ball, first released in Astral Radiance, allows the player to look at their Prize cards, and swap a Basic Pokémon found there with the Hisuian Heavy Ball card.
- The Love Ball, first released in Twilight Masquerade, is similar in effect to Friend Ball, except it allows the user to search their deck for a Pokémon of the same name (instead of the same type) as one of the opponent's Pokémon, and put it into their hand.

Poké Ball

Great Ball

Ultra Ball

Master Ball

Fast Ball

Level Ball

Lure Ball

Heavy Ball

Love Ball

Friend Ball

Net Ball

Nest Ball

Repeat Ball

Timer Ball

Luxury Ball

Premier Ball

Dive Ball

Dusk Ball

Quick Ball

Cherish Ball

Dream Ball

Beast Ball

Feather Ball

Hisuian Heavy Ball

### List of Poké Balls original to the TCG

- The Dual Ball is two Poké Balls together, and has a similar (but not identical) effect to using two Poké Ball cards. The player flips two coins then searches their deck for one Basic Pokémon per heads result.
- The Team Magma Ball is a Team Magma variation of the Poké Ball, released only in the EX Team Magma vs Team Aqua expansion. First, the player flips a coin. If it has a heads result, the card allows the user to search for a Team Magma's Pokémon. If that coin flip results in tails, the search is limited to Basic Team Magma Pokémon.
- The Team Aqua Ball is a Team Aqua variation of the Poké Ball, also released only in the EX Team Magma vs Team Aqua expansion. It has the same effect as the Team Magma Ball, but searches for Team Aqua's Pokémon instead.
- The Rocket's Poké Ball is the Team Rocket variation on the Poké Ball, released in the EX Team Rocket Returns expansion. It allows the player to search their deck for a Dark Pokémon.
- The Team Plasma Ball is a Team Plasma variation of the Poké Ball, released in the Plasma Freeze expansion. It allows the user to search their deck for a Team Plasma Pokémon.
- The Team Magma's Great Ball is a Team Magma variation on the Great Ball, released in the Double Crisis expansion. It searches the deck for a Basic Team Magma Pokémon and a Basic Energy.
- The Team Aqua's Great Ball is a Team Aqua variation on the Great Ball, also released in the Double Crisis expansion. It searches the deck for a Basic Team Aqua Pokémon and a Basic Energy.
- The Team Rocket's Great Ball is a Team Rocket variation on the Great Ball, released in the Destined Rivals expansion. The player flips a coin then searches their deck for an Evolution Team Rocket's Pokémon for heads or a Basic Team Rocket's Pokémon for tails.

Dual Ball

Team Magma Ball

Team Aqua Ball

Rocket's Poké Ball

Team Plasma Ball

Team Magma's Great Ball

Team Aqua's Great Ball

Team Rocket's Great Ball

## In the novels

### Pocket Monsters: The Animation

In Pocket Monsters: The Animation, it is said that Poké Balls were invented in 1925 by Professor Nishinomori.

## In the guidebooks

According to the Encyclopedia Pokemonica, Pocket Monsters Encyclopedia, and a Pokémon Daisuki Club site describing the Pokémon world, modern Poké Balls were developed in 1925 from the research of Professor Westwood of Celadon University.

## In real life

The Pokémon Company has occasionally partnered with certain companies in order to create certain products. This includes Poké Balls.

- The Pokémon Company has collaborated with Tiffany & Co. in order to make a Poké Ball that also acts as a jewelry case.

The Tiffany & Co. Poké Ball.

## Trivia

In the Generation I games, after defeating the rival for the first time in Route 22, if the player returns to Professor Oak's Laboratory without any Poké Balls in the item bag, Professor Oak will then gift the player 5 Poké Balls.[8]

- Since Generation II onwards, the player is automatically awarded Poké Balls upon acquiring the Pokédex, or shortly after.

Professor Oak has written senryū about the Poké Ball in two of his lectures:

- For DP003, the Professor Oak's Big Pokémon Encyclopedia featured this senryū: 「ゲットだぜ なげかたいろいろ モンスターボール」 "I caught a Pokémon! Monster Balls can be thrown in all sorts of ways."
- For BW002, the Professor Oak's Pokémon Live Caster featured this senryū: 「あっポケモン モンスターボール わすれずに」 "Oh, a Pokémon; don't forget to bring your Monster Balls."

Poké Balls are inspired by the capsules for gashapon machines, which contain small, handheld toys.

- In Pokémon Journeys: The Series, the Rocket Prize Master(ロケット・ガチャット, Rocket Gachat), first appearing in Ivysaur's Mysterious Tower!, acts as such a machine but dispenses Pokémon in Poké Balls rather than plastic toys.

## In other languages

| Language | Title |
| --- | --- |
| Japanese | モンスターボール Monster Ball |
| Arabic | كرة البوكي Kurt Al-Poké |
| Catalan | Poké Ball |
| Chinese | Cantonese | 精靈球 Jīnglìhng Kàuh |
| Mandarin | 精靈球 / 精灵球 Jīnglíng Qiú *寶貝球 / 宝贝球 Bǎobèi Qiú * |
| Croatian | Pokélopta |
| Czech | Pokébal |
| Danish | Pokéball |
| Dutch | PokéBal * |
| Finnish | Poképallo |
| French | Poké Ball |
| German | Pokéball |
| Hebrew | פוקדור Pokadur |
| Hindi | पोकेबॉल Pokéball |
| Hungarian | Pokélabda |
| Icelandic | Pokébolti |
| Indonesian | Poké BallBola Pokémon |
| Italian | Poké BallSfera Poké * |
| Korean | 몬스터볼 Monster Ball |
| Malaysian | Poké BallPokéball |
| Norwegian | Pokéball |
| Polish | Pokéball |
| Portuguese | Brazil | Poké Bola *Poké bola *Poké Ball *Pokébola * |
| Portugal | PokébolaBola Poké * |
| Romanian | Poké-minge |
| Russian | Поке-Болл Poké-Boll *Покешар Pokéshar * |
| Spanish | Latin America | Pokébola |
| Spain | Poké Ball |
| Swedish | Poké BallPokébollPokéklot *Poké-klot * |
| Tamil | போகிபால் Pokéball |
| Telugu | పోకెబాల్ Pokéball |
| Thai | มอนสเตอร์บอล Monster Ballโปเกบอล Poké Ball * |
| Turkish | Poké Top |
| Vietnamese | Bóng chứa PokémonBóng Poké |

## References

1. Generation VI is the only completed generation to date to not have introduced a new type of Poké Ball.
2. Game Informer: Pokémon's Burning Questions(archive)
3. What It's Like Inside A Pokeball, According To A Pokémon Developer | Kotaku
4. Shea, Brian (October 4, 2019). " Exclusive Pokémon Sword And Shield Concept Art Gallery." Game Informer (Archived on April 16, 2024.)
5. Never miss with the Master Ball—coming soon to Pokémon GO!
6. Tickets – Pokémon GO
7. Event Gameplay – Pokémon GO
8. Pokémon GO Wild Area: Global
9. Gift Poké Balls code in pokered disassembly

## Related articles

Poké Balls

Poké Ball

Great Ball

Ultra Ball

Master Ball

Safari Ball

Fast Ball

Level Ball

Lure Ball

Heavy Ball

Love Ball

Friend Ball

Moon Ball

Sport Ball

Net Ball

Nest Ball

Repeat Ball

Timer Ball

Luxury Ball

Premier Ball

Dive Ball

Dusk Ball

Heal Ball

Quick Ball

Cherish Ball

Park Ball

Dream Ball

Beast Ball

Strange Ball

Hisuian Poké Balls (exclusive to Pokémon Legends: Arceus)

Poké Ball

Great Ball

Ultra Ball

Heavy Ball

Leaden Ball

Gigaton Ball

Feather Ball

Wing Ball

Jet Ball

Origin Ball

| Types of items |
| --- |
| General | Evolution stones• Fossils• Flutes• Shards• Held items Evolution items• Escape items• Exchangeable items• Valuable items Battle items• Scents• Nectars• Candy• Ingredients |
| Medicine | Status condition healing items• Vitamins• Feathers Mints• Mochi• Drinks• Herbal medicine |
| Berry & Apricorn | Poké Balls • Apricorns• Berries• Mulch |
| Aesthetic | Decorations• Accessories• Backdrops• Props• Décor Clothing(XY• SMUSUM• LGPE• SwSh• BDSP• LA• SV• Z-A• PBR) |
| Other | Mail• Key Items• Event items Wonder Launcher items• Rotom Powers |

Super Smash Bros. series

Games

Super Smash Bros.• Super Smash Bros. Melee• Super Smash Bros. Brawl Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U• Super Smash Bros. Ultimate

Characters

Pikachu• Jigglypuff• Mewtwo• Pichu Pokémon Trainer(Squirtle• Ivysaur• Charizard) • Lucario• Greninja• Incineroar

Stages

Saffron City• Pokémon Stadium• Poké Floats• Pokémon Stadium 2• Spear Pillar Prism Tower• Unova Pokémon League• Kalos Pokémon League

Poké Ball& Master Ball

Abomasnow• Abra• Alolan Exeggutor• Alolan Raichu• Alolan Vulpix• Arceus• Articuno• Beedrill Bellossom• Bewear• Blastoise• Bonsly• Celebi• Chansey• Charizard• Chespin• Chikorita• Clefairy Cyndaquil• Darkrai• Dedenne• Deoxys• Ditto• Eevee• Electrode• Entei• Fennekin Fletchling• Gardevoir• Genesect• Giratina• Gogoat• Goldeen• Groudon• Gulpin• Hitmonlee Ho-Oh• Inkay• Jirachi• Keldeo• Koffing• Kyogre• Kyurem• Latias and Latios Lugia• Lunala• Manaphy• Marill• Marshadow• Meloetta• Meowth• Mew• Metagross• Mimikyu Moltres• Munchlax• Onix• Oshawott• Palkia• Piplup• Porygon2• Pyukumuku• Raikou• Scizor• Snivy Snorlax• Solgaleo• Spewpa• Staryu• Starmie• Suicune• Swirlix• Tapu Koko• Togedemaru• Togepi Torchic• Unown• Venusaur• Victini• Vulpix• Weavile• Weezing• Wobbuffet• Xerneas• Zapdos• Zoroark

Collectables

Trophies (Melee• Brawl• 3DS/Wii U) • Stickers• Spirits

Misc

The Subspace Emissary• My Music• Final Smash• Pokémon Change• Brawl cameos

| This item article is part of Project ItemDex, a Bulbapedia project that aims to write comprehensive articles on all items. |
| --- |

 

 

Retrieved from " https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/w/index.php?title=Poké_Ball&oldid=4515603"

 

## Navigation menu

